-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand about
AWS EKS storage.
So in EKS storage we have different type
of drivers and then provisioners.
So if you see here we have entry, EBS, provisioner, EBS
CSI driver, EFS CSI driver, and then FSX 4 cluster CSI.
So entry EBS provisioner is a legacy one
and will be soon deprecated.
So we are not going to look into that.
In the future it is going to be with the CSI drivers only.
So what does that CSI mean is
like container storage interface.
So with EBS, which is nothing but elastic block storage
which is for persistent volumes.
So we can use EBS
CSI driver and we also have Elastic file system
which is a fully manager file system by AWS.
So if you want to use it, we can use EFS
CSI driver in addition to that regular FSX four cluster.
CSI will be available
for Windows file systems in other stuff.
But the core thing here is we are going to primarily discuss
on EBS CSI driver in our upcoming continuous lectures.
And then we are going to use this EBS CSI driver
leverage this driver
and then use the EBS service in AWS to have
the persistent volume mounts forever Myer scale database.
But let's see this a little bit about these drivers.
So these are the latest
and greatest available today and they are in beta releases
but they're also ready for production use
and
as on today.
So these drivers are not supported on AWS EKS Fargate
which is nothing but serverless infrastructure.
And it allows EKS clusters to manage lifecycle
of EBS volumes for persistent storage
or EFS file systems and FXS for luster file systems.
So entire lifecycle of these respective services
which is EBS or EFS or FXS
can also be managed using these drivers from EKS.
So now EBS and then EFS are supported for
Kubernetes 1
point 14 and then later options and FSX for cluster
CSA supported from 1 point 16 and then latest options.
So now moving on.
So let's see a little bit more about the EBS CSA driver
right? So before going in, so let's understand what
is this elastic block store before moving on?
Okay, so EBS provides block level storage volumes for used
with easy to and then container instances.
So we can mount these volumes as devices on our EC2R
container instances.
So EBS volumes that are attach it to an instance are exposed
as storage volumes that persist independently from the life
of the EC 2 R container instance.
In simple terms, even if we terminate our EC2
instance, instance are if even if we terminate
or if our container instance got terminated
or our respect to Kubernetes port got terminated
still volume is persisted independently.
So we really don't need to worry about the data stored
in those volumes, right?
So we can dynamically change the configuration
of a volume attached to an instance.
We can increase the size of the instance
means like we can increase the size
of the volume or decrease the size of the volume.
We can do all those things.
Okay? So AWS recommends EBS
for data that must be quickly accessible
and requests long term persistence.
So EBS is well suited for
both database style applications that rely on random reads
and rights and to throw put intensive applications
that perform long continuous reads and then right?
So for in both ways it is useful.
So now let's see what we are going to build on a high level.
So in a EKS cluster
so we are going to create a deployment which is nothing
but the Myer scale deployment.
So for this respective Myer scale deployment
we are going to leverage the elastic block store
as the volume mounts inside this deployment, which means
for this Myer scale database, we are going to
use data volume mounts as from elastic block store.
So in addition to that
as part of this deployment, whenever we are creating, right
so we need to learn few other Kubernetes concepts here.
One is storage classes
persistent volume claims, config maps, and we are
on mental variables, volumes and then volume modes.
So all these things we are going to learn
as part of this entire use case.
In addition to that
so unlike earlier, which means like earlier
we used to use it persistent volumes first means
like as a Kubernetes administrator
I used to create a storage class
and a persistent volume and then I need to go
and then claim that volume using persistent volume claiming.
So, but now we are going to use the another
later feature dynamic volume provisioning here.
Okay? So that is going to come in
and then we'll discuss whenever it comes
we'll discuss in detail about that.
But for now, let's move on with what we have
as part of that, as usual, again, we are going to understand
about note port service and then deployment of my SQL.
So I also change these two cluster trip service
because this deployment is going to use my scale
deployment is going to use the cluster IP service.
So moving on.
So once we complete this means
like creating the storage class related Kubernetes
manifest persistent volume related manifest
and then config map related manifest
and deployment with environmental variables, volumes
and then volume mounts and then cluster IP manifest.
So once we complete 1, 2, 3, 4, file,
file manifest
then we'll move on.
Oh, the next thing which is nothing
but our user management service.
So we have created a persistent database
but how we are are going to know that by, by integrating it
with an application, we will know better, right?
So that's the reason I have created a simple springboard
user management microservice.
So wherein you'll be able to create the users
whenever a user is created, it'll come
and then store it in the Myer scale database.
And whenever you delete the user
it'll be deleted from the Myer skill database.
Whenever you list to the users, it'll fetch the users
from the Myer skill database and then show it to you
from your postman client or from browser or whatever, right?
So whatever the client we are using.
So all those things we can do.
So that type of application we are going to deploy here
and then create a deployment for that.
So which means we'll create a deployment with the respect
to environmental variables here, which is nothing
but why do we need to have environmental variables
in this deployment is nothing
but these environmental variables will have that
database information to connect to this respect to database.
So what is the DB host
and then what is the DB username DB password
and what is the schema we are going to use?
So all those things.
So the schema, whatever we are going to create inside this
my skill databases, user management schema
which we will define in this config map.
And then that will get created.
So we'll create a deployment
with environmental variables to connect
to this respect to Myer skill here.
And in addition to that
we are also going to create a note port service tool.
Access the users means like for a, for access to users
we are going to create a note port service
so we can access it via internet.
So all these things we are going to do.
So let's go back one more time to our GitHub repo
and
go to our EKS storage
with EBS elastic block store.
Okay, so if you see here we are going to use EBS CSI driver
and use EBS volumes
for persistent storage to my scale database.
So the core topics involved here are first
installing the EBS CSI driver on our Kubernetes cluster
and then create the Myers scale database deployment
and then cluster IP service and finally
create the user management microservice deployment
and then note port service.
So as part of that, the following Kubernetes
concepts are covered storage classes, persistent volumes
conflict maps, environmental variables, and then
note port services, environment, wells, all these things.
And in addition to that
after this entire section is completed
the entire EBS section is completed.
All these things.
And then if you still have doubts
or if you want to implement few things
whatever is not referred in this section, again
you can definitely go
to these references and then look into.
So why, because we are using here only
that dynamic volume provisioning here
but you can even do the static provisioning
or even resize your disc.
There will be different options available here.
And then you can use these thing reference links to
understand better and then change whatever you want or
in your real world environments based on your requirements.
Whatever you want to do, you can use these things.
Okay? So I'll see you in the next lecture
by moving on with the installing EBS CSA driver.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.